# (F)All Out War

## Description

I called this one (F)All Out War because Sim Settlements 2 Chapter 3 is a primary mod in this collection and presents the gunners as a serious threat. We Are The Minutemen and Militarized Minutemen give the Minutemen real teeth. There are more enemy types and added mechanics for calling in an airstrike, either from your faction in SS2 or from the Minutemen - or both! You now have the ability to build and maintain a fleet of vertibirds with different loadouts and paint schemes. There are more weapons, and the raiders have them, too. The combination of the Feral Ghouls Expansion Pack and Black Summer mods make ferals much more problematic than before.

While my last collection was great, it wasn't quite stable enough so I made some sacrifices in the interests of stability. I removed several mods such as Diamond City Expansion, Scrap Everything, Water Effects and Textures, and other great mods that just didn't quite make the cut. Most were replaced with more stable methods.

My goal was immersive game play, improved survival mechanics, and a richer story line while maintaining a challenging game. A survival play-through can be more enjoyable now with full customization and added fast-travel mechanics via Caravans in SS2 settlements, the teleporter, personal vertibirds, and a sailboat. New settlements include a vast underground facility, an underwater vault (cut content), and an underground hideout full of goodies. I strongly suggest finding Heather Casdin right away, she's the best companion mod ever created. Level 109 and I'm still getting new dialogue and interactions.

Please, let me know if there are any problems installing this collection by leaving a comment or, preferably, creating an Issue on GitHub and (hopefully) submitting a crash log generated by Buffout4.
Oh, and get good at headshots - you'll need it.

## Main features

- Tons of bug fixes, improved _everything_. Check out the mod list.
- pre-rolled .ini files on [GitHub](https://github.com/Bus42/f_all_out_war)! (remember to customize them)
- Includes Minerva Looks Menu Preset and Minerva's Red Rocket - rpconfig script available on GitHub to match the outfit, loadout, stats, and perks of the Minerva preset
- Skip the stupid DiMA memory game
- Skip raiding your own settlements
- Simplified terminal hacking
- So much crafting, including more grenade types and legendary crafting!
- Larger settlements with All Settlements Extended
- A batch script to increase build limits! (thouroughly tested, but don't go crazy) 
- Find anything from any mod with the ESP explorer, just press **CTRL+Z** to bring up the menu
- Works great with ReShade (no ENB required!)
- No complicated previs crap - it never works
- ShadowBoost - press **F11** to bring up the shadow boost menu and tweak your performance
- Super great #1 happy fun time Fall UI for a drastically improved UI!
- Optional mods to rebuild The Castle and Echo Lake Lumber by activating placed items
- _Tons_ of radio stations
- Holy crap, there's a lot in the workshop - Woody's Wasteland Stuff, Settlement Objects Expanded, Wasteland Reconstruction Kit, placeable animation markers, and so much more!
- _Tons_ of new recipes for food, drinks, chems, ammo, explosive, gear, etc.
- Revamped perk system that's a little more like FNV
- Tweaked damage and armor values to make combat more realistic

## Before you start

### Requirements

If you want Buffout4 to work, follow the setup instructions on the Nexus Mods page, same for FALL UI Complex Item Sorter Patch

### Best practices

Take the extra time to set up the aforementioned mods
Clean mods with Quick Auto Clean

## Recommended specs

- GPU 3060 or better
- RAM 16 GB
- CPU 6-core or better

I get about 48 FPS @ native 4k playing via Steam on Linux with the following launch config options on a Ryzen 5 3600, RTX 3060, and 32GB RAM

```cli
WINEDLLOVERRIDES="xaudio2_7=n,b;d3dcompiler_47=n;dxgi=n,b" PROTON_ENABLE_NVAPI=1 PROTON_NO_ESYNC=1 ENABLE_VKBASALT=1 MANGOHUD_CONFIGFILE=/home/greg/.steam/debian-installation/steamapps/common/Fallout\ 4/MangoHud.conf mangohud gamemoderun %command%
```

## Compatible Collections

 No other collections have been tested with this collection. It was designed to be a one-shot solution. For best stability, do not combine with other collections. I have tested literally thousands of mods. If there's one you really want and it isn't in here - chances are it was in Fallout Upgrayedded and didn't make the cut for this one. Any mods that alter settlements or locations will likely conflict as many locations and settlements are altered. Any mods that affect NPC AI will cause conflicts. Any mods that alter vanilla quests, such as start mods, will likely cause issues. Any mods that affect combat AI will cause conflicts

 That being said, feel free to install your favorite texture mods - the ones in this collection were chosen for a balance of quality and performance. Throw all the clothing and weapon mods you want at it. Keep in mind all of the vanilla outfits in the base game and all DLC have been replaced and you will already have your choice of up to 3 overrides when building with BodySlide (CBBE, Classy Chassis Outfits, and Jumpsuits) plus all of the outfits from Eli's Compendium - modified with CCO.
